# Tabular-Playground---January-2022
Kaggle competition in which a dataset containing five features must be used to predict the number of products sold
For this challenge I predicted a full year worth of sales for three items at two stores located in three different countries. This dataset is completely fictional, but contains many effects that can be seen in real-world data, e.g., weekend and holiday effect, seasonality, etc. The first thing I did was make the date feature more usable. I did this by using python's datetime package to determine which day of the week each date was. I also used the holidays package to determine if a specific day was a holiday. Next I split the day, month, and year parts of the date feature so that they would become three separate columns. Lastly I found a dataset that contained the GDP per capita of each of the three countries that the stores are located in and I added that feature to the testing and training datasets. 
Once the preprocessing of the data was complete I began testing some models. The scoring criteria was the symmetric mean absolute percentage error, so I made a function called smape that could be used with python’s RandomizedSearchCV in order to find the best model according to the smape scoring metric. RandomizedSearchCV was used to test various parameters for a random forest model, a regression model, an ada boost model, a cat boost model, an xgboost model, and an lgbm regressor model. After testing various parameters on all these different models the random forest model was the model that ended up giving me my best smape score of 8.33. I also tried to use a neural network model using keras, however the random forest model still produced better results. 
